[SOUND] Let's explore
the use of Excel's SUMIFS
function to summarize totals of our
data meeting different criteria.
Problem 3A asks us to
calculate total revenue for
each of the products listed in
the product column of the exercise table.
SUMIFS syntax is similar
to that of COUNTIFS,
but it asks us first for the range to
calculate a sum of values from, and
then it asks for
criteria to apply when summing that range.
Let's calculate the sum of revenue for
each of the products in
column bravo of our table.
We'll parameterize SUMIFS
by first pointing it
to the revenue column of the data set,
as we want it to sum revenue.
Next, let's sum only for
the product listed in column bravo,
or the current row of the product
column of our exercise table.
We'll point SUMIFS to the product
column of the data set and
then to the product column of our
exercise table, let's set it to work.
We see that the exercise table auto
fills our formula down the column.
Let's validate our calculation
of total revenue for
sales of Pure Soft detergent
100 milliliter in the data set.
Let's filter down for the Pure Soft
detergent 100 milliliter product,
then quickly calculate the sum of revenues
by highlighting the resulting values
in the revenue column of the data set
and checking the sum value in the status
bar at the bottom right corner
of the screen.
We see that there were
indeed $3,024 in revenue generated
by sales of this product.
The next part of the problem asks us to
calculate total revenue for all sales
where there were fewer than
100 units sold.
We can use SUMIFS in a manner
similar to the way we used COUNTIFS
earlier in this module and
pass it criteria as string parameters.
We are still summing revenue, so
let's point SUMIFS to the revenue
column of our dataset as the summary.
Next, let's have it look at
the quantity column of the dataset and,
as the third parameter, find
quantities less than one hundred
by typing less than one hundred in quotes.
Let's set SUMIF to work.
We could validate the answer
against the data set
by manually filtering it down
by using the number drop down.
If we did, we'd see that we
generated $16,820 in revenues from
all sales of fewer than 100 items.
Now it's your turn to demonstrate
your understanding of SUMIFS by
completing problem #3B.
[MUSIC]